---
layout: post
category: [notes]
title: Arnaldo Momigliano
date: 2017-03-07 21:15:09
tags: []
math: true
---

看豆瓣短評上有說，莫大佬這種論文寫法是模仿不來的。

其實應該是模仿不來的是這個厚積薄發的厚，然後娓娓道來時候自帶的視野和心懷。大抵一般學者都做不到了。

這到不妨可以作爲博學的一種理由和標榜。

------

**Publications:**

- Books

Sommario di scoria delle civiltà antiche, 2 vols. (Florence, 1934 with many reprints); The Conflict between Paganism and Christianity in the Fourth Century (ed.) (Oxford, 1963; Italian translation by Anna Davies Morpurgo as II conflitto era paganesimo e cristianesimo nel secolo IV. Turin, 1968); Studies in Historiography (London and New York, 1966); The Development of Greek Biography: Four Lectures. (Cambridge, MA, 1971); Introduzione bibliografica alia storia grecafino a Socrate (Florence, 1975); Alien Wisdom. The Limits of Hellenization (Cambridge, 1975; German translation as Hochkulturen im Hellenismus: Die Begegnung der Griechen mit Kelten, Juden, Römern und Persern [Munich, 1979]); Essays in Ancient and Modern Historiography (Oxford, 1977); Problèmes d’historiographie ancienne et moderne (Paris 1983); Sui fondamenti della storia antica (Turin, 1984); Studies in Historiography (New York: Garland, 1985); Tra storia e storicismo (Pisa, 1985); Storia e storiografia antica (Bologna, 1987); Pagine ebraiche (Turin, 1987); On Pagans, Jews, and Christians (Middletown, CT, 1987); Saggi di storia della religione romana (Brescia, 1988); The Classical Foundations of Modern Historiography (Berkeley & Los Angeles, 1990); Essays on Ancient and Modern Judaism, ed. Silva Berti (Chicago & London, 1994).

- Monographs

Prime linee di storia della tradizione Maccabaica (Rome, 1930; 2d ed., Turin, 1931; 3d ed., Rome, 1968); L’opera dell' imperatore Claudio (Florence, 1932; English translation by W. D. Hogarth as Claudius: the Emperor and his Achievement.Oxford, 1934; 2d ed., 1961); Filippo il Macedone. Saggio sulla storia greca del IV secolo a. C. (Florence, 1934; 2d ed., 1987); Laformazione della moderna storiografia sull’ impero Romano (Turin, 1938); George Grote and the Study of Greek History. An inaugural lecture delivered at University College, London, 19 February 1952 (London, 1952); Cassiodorus and the Italian Culture of His Time (London, 1956. Orig. published PBA 41 (1956) 207-245); Jacob Bernays (Amsterdam and London, 1969); Second Thoughts on Greek Biography (Amsterdam and London, 1971); How to Reconcile Greeks and Trojans (Amsterdam & London, 1982).

- Articles (Collected)

Contributi alia storia degli studi classici e del mondo antico I, 8 parts in 11 volumes (Rome, 1955-87); Studies on Modern Scholarship ed. G.W. Bowersock & T.J. Cornell (Berkeley & Los Angeles, 1994).

- Articles (Selected)

“Ancient History and the Antiquarian.” JWI 13 (1950) 285-315; “An Unsolved Problem of Historical Forgery: The Scriptores Historiae Augustae," JWl 17 (1954) 22-46; “An Interim Report on the Origins of Rome,” JRS 53 (1963) 95-121; “History and Biography” and “Greek Culture and the Jews,” in The Legacy of Greece: A New Appraisal ed. M.I. Finley (Oxford, 1981).

------

Born in Caraglio (Cuneo), Momigliano was of a Jewish family that can be traced back to the fourteen


--------




