---
layout: post
category: [notes]
title: Heinrich Meier
date: 2024-02-18 23:10:42
tags: [readin]
math: true
---

Heinrich Meier 

Born on April 8, 1953 in Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany, German citizen.
Address: Carl Friedrich von Siemens Stiftung
Südliches Schlossrondell 23
80638 München
Germany
E-mail: h.meier@carl-friedrich-von-siemens-stiftung.de

------

出版著作：

1984  Bilingual (French/Ger-man) critical edition of the integral text, including the surviving fragments and supplementary material in accordance with the original editions and manuscripts. Newly edited, translated, and with commentary. 

1988  Carl Schmitt, Leo Strauss und “Der Begriff des Politischen”. Zu einem Dialog unter Abwesenden. With Leo Strauss’s essay on “Der Begriff des Politischen” and three previously unpublished letters to Carl Schmitt from 1932–33. Stuttgart: Metzler Verlag, 1988. 141 pp. （Carl Schmitt and Leo Strauss. The Hidden Dialogue, translated by Harvey Lomax with a “Preface to the American Edition” and a “Foreword” by Joseph Cropsey. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1995. 156 pp. ）

1994  Die Lehre Carl Schmitts. Vier Kapitel zur Unterscheidung Politischer Theologie und Politischer Philosophie. Stuttgart/Weimar: Metzler Verlag, 1994. 267 pp., 1 illustration （The Lesson of Carl Schmitt: Four Chapters on the Distinction between Political Theology and Political Philosophy, translated by Marcus Brainard with a “Preface to the American Edition.” Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1998. 203 pp.）

2000  Warum Politische Philosophie? [Why Political Philosophy?] Stuttgart/Weimar: Metzler Verlag, 2000. 40 pp.

2003  Das theologisch-politische Problem. Zum Thema von Leo Strauss [The Theologico-Political Problem: On the Theme of Leo Strauss]. Stuttgart/Weimar: Metzler Verlag, 2003. 86 pp.

2005  “Les rêveries du Promeneur Solitaire”. Rousseau über das philosophische Leben. Munich: Carl Friedrich von Siemens Stiftung, 2005. 68 pp.（Recovering Reason: Essays in Honor of Thomas L. Pangle）

2006 Leo Strauss and the Theologico-Political Problem translated by Marcus Brainard with a “Preface to the American Edition” and two unpublished lectures by Leo Strauss: “The Living Issues of German Postwar Philosophy” (1940), “Reason and Revelation” (1948). Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006. 204 pp. 

2006 Was ist Politische Theologie? – What Is Political Theology? Munich: Carl Friedrich von Siemens Stiftung, 2006. 35 pp. Second edition 2017, 35 pp.

2011 Über das Glück des philosophischen Lebens. Reflexionen zu Rousseaus Rêveries in zwei Büchern. Munich: C.H.Beck, 2011, 444 pp. （On the Happiness of the Philosophic Life. Reflections on Rousseau’s “Rêveries” in Two Books）

2013 Politische Philosophie und die Herausforderung der Offenbarungsreligion. Munich: C.H.Beck, 2013, pp. 238. （Political Philosophy and the Challenge of Revealed Religion ）

2014 Politik und Praktische Philosophie. Gedenkrede auf Wilhelm Hennis. [Politics and Practical Philosophy. Memorial Lecture on Wilhelm Hennis.] Berlin: Duncker & Humblot, 2014, pp. 30.

2018 Was ist Nietzsches Zarathustra? Eine philosophische Auseinandersetzung. Munich: C.H.Beck, 2018, 240 pp

2019 Nietzsches Vermächtnis. “Ecce homo” und “Der Antichrist”. Zwei Bücher über Natur und Politik. Munich: C.H.Beck, 2019, 352 pp. 


好像也不是很多，另外還有中文本的4卷作品集。



--------




